Hey everybody, Adam Savage and I am at
my friend Fawn Davis's shop, Funko in
LA. How are you, sir?
>> Great. Good to see you. We we're I love
this room. I just I love the smell of
this room. I love the machine tools.
This is your effects lab.
>> Yes.
>> Okay. Uh tell me what goes on in here.
>> Uh this is where we do all of our uh
technologydriven fabrication. So, a lot
of our machining for robotics, all of
our electronics, lighting, that kind of
stuff, and then of course all our 3D
printing. So what you mean is like other
than different than a casting room where
you'd be just making molds. This is
where you're integrating parts that
you're building with the technology that
you're using, lights, electronics, etc.
>> Exactly. Exactly. Okay. And the
>> 3D CNC, the 3D printers. We do have
vacuum forming machines.
>> Yeah, I saw that. I saw that. Your old
red one.
>> Yep. We built those at the same time.
Yes.
>> It's still going.
>> Um can you tell me about this big
printer just for a second?
>> Yeah, this is Okay. This is our newest
printer.
>> Okay. So um this is called a fashion
printer. Um it's the uh J850 from
Stratus. So all all our primary machines
that we use for the bigger jobs of
Stratus machines.
>> Um
>> and this what it can do is it can print
on fabric. So this is just kind of an
example. And you can see there's some
stuff on here that's lenticular.
>> And you can do lenticular on other
printers, but fabric it's you can see
how it's way more effective.
>> Silla, are you kidding me? This is
crazy. And then you can also
>> you can also print in flexible
>> materials. We have printed on spandex
and it stretches. Everything's great.
>> So no more no more screen printing those
superhero costumes. You can just print
out
>> Yeah, you could print it and you can
make it dimensional in any way you want.
Like those are little tiny pyramids that
are also lenticular.
>> Come on, that's crazy.
>> Yeah. So, whoever wants to make costumes
with this machine for their feature will
get an Academy Award
>> for costume because it's never been done
before,
>> right?
>> We It's So, like I said, it's a very,
very new machine.
>> Wow.
>> So,
>> I'm totally blown away by this. You must
be so excited to have this in here.
>> We are. Absolutely. Yeah. And there's
only so many of these in the world. So,
um it's a pretty rare uh ability.
>> So, I'm looking at pieces here that are
almost a centimeter high. Is there an
upper limit for how high you can print
on this? uh just the limits of the
machine. So I think this could go up to
about 10 in. Not that you would ever
want that on fabric.
>> What?
>> Um but you do have to the way this works
is you clamp the fabric into this frame.
>> Mhm.
>> And then you print into the fabric. So
the in testing with the machine, the the
fabric does have to have a weave
>> for the material to bond to.
>> So you can't print. Exactly. And you
also can't print on anything that has if
if you're if you're doing little parts,
you want a tight enough weave. So, we
did a mesh pieces started to fall off of
that if they were too small.
>> Oh, fascinating.
>> But that that's just science. If the
part is smaller than the hole in the
fabric, then obviously it's not going to
attach.
>> Um,
>> and then so when we need bigger pieces
of fabric, we just move them in the
frame.
>> Oh, right. You can just keep on
>> and you just keep printing.
>> Oh, that is super cool.
>> And you could build special uh templates
and things like that
>> for alignment for different different
Yeah. Mhm.
>> I mean, and usually with a costume,
you're not doing large monolithic
pieces. You're doing panels.
>> Yeah. And that's all designed in the
computer now anyway. So,
>> right, how they lay out to each other.
Yeah.
>> We might hand pattern something, but we
also scan it because we want those
patterns digitally.
>> Um, are you starting to think about just
experiments with this to to push it and
see what it can do?
>> Oh, yeah. Absolutely. No, I want to make
a jacket.
>> Yes.
>> It's Well, you know how it is. Your
personal projects. It's like when do you
have free time?
>> Yeah. Yeah.
>> That's why it took me 20 years to do my
R2-D2.
>> Fair.
>> Right.
>> But if we made one for a movie, it'd be
done in a month.
>> Exactly. No, that person I had had a
month between jobs. That's how I
finished your Exactly.
>> Um the solidness of these triangles is
also blowing my mind about movement.
>> Yeah. Yeah. It's just a matter of how
you design it, you know. So the fabric
obviously acts as a hinge.
>> Can this print in other softer, more
flexible materials?
>> Yes. In fact,
>> right? That's what you were saying about
this,
>> right? So that and well, this is this is
where it gets even more fun.
>> Yeah.
>> Like uh you can print in color in
flexible materials. So we did
>> uh we did a class for the Stan Winston
school.
>> No.
>> Where I talk about technology and
fabrication and one of the samples that
we did for the lesson was building an
animatronic octopus, which is what the
those are from.
>> But also
>> you can do
>> this is a 3D print
>> in color. in color. I mean, you Stratus
has sent me some bananas that we covered
on the channel. Uh, all four different
sizes. All four are beautiful in color,
but just like this as an effects guy,
this opens up so much.
>> Yeah. Yeah. It's absolutely amazing. The
shoot was Yeah. We slathered it with
lubricant like we do and and it looked
great.
>> Shot at high speed and we worked with
Habib Jagenor who did the tidal wave uh
effects in Perfect Storm. Oh my gosh.
>> And he did our effects. He and his wife
did the effects for
>> um
>> Dude, also the color is really really
gorgeous. Like amazing, right?
>> The purple, the edges, the the
subtleties around the white suckers.
It's It feels like from here it's
selling to me.
>> Yeah.
>> Yeah. You would never guess that this
was 3D printed or I wouldn't guess.
>> Right. No, I would think it was on the
menu.
>> And then obviously we add the armature
after the fact.
>> Right. Right. Right. You've been working
with Stratus now for like a decade.
>> Yeah, just about. Yeah. Yeah. and they
they've been great. So if if we have
jobs that are too big for our machines
here, we can even get stuff printed with
them because of our partnerships. So
yeah, we do a lot of stuff with them,
>> dude. That is
>> and and also they help us like when we
have things that like, okay, how are we
going to do this?
>> We we have a company we can lean on and
and kind of work together to figure out
very difficult technical projects.
>> You probably love the weird crap you
bring them. That's that's why we work
with them because we we are always
pushing the envelope especially in
technology. I've always been uh
suffering from what I call early adopter
syndrome.
>> I have to have the newest technology as
soon as it comes out and the side effect
of that is I have very good
relationships with the companies that
come out with that technology because
we're always pushing their machines to
the absolute limit.
>> Amazing. Yeah.
>> Amazing. Okay, let's there's some work.
>> So, we have and this is nothing new. We
do have a machine that can print um FDM
and we use this for all our structural
parts.
>> So it's in our arsenal. It can print
carbon fiber as well.
>> Oh.
>> So yeah, this was for
>> Oh, nice.
>> Yeah. So anything anytime you need extra
strength,
>> right? Right. That's the machine.
>> Oh, so you can print carbon fiber into
this.
>> Yes.
>> Oh, super cool.
>> Yeah. This is all um ABS. Um but but the
machine does have the capability to do
carbon fiber and we just haven't had a
need yet.
>> Okay.
>> You know how it is. You're waiting for
that project. Yeah.
>> You're going through every meeting being
like you're going to need a lot more
strength for this one.
>> Right. Um but yeah, so so we can do
that. And then we have our J55s which
are these two machines here.
>> Um the way these work and the way that
uh actually all the color machines work
here
>> is
>> you can print you have to be able to
print black and white obviously,
>> right? Um, but you have CMYK just like
you would in an inkjet printer.
>> And so these cartridges um allow us to
print and you can get these in flexible
or rigid.
>> These are all translucent by nature and
you lay down white if you want to print
opaque.
>> Oh wow.
>> Just like a printer.
>> Yeah. But on that you print on paper.
>> So you're mimicking the paper.
>> Amazing.
>> Um and this is an example. This is one
of my favorites.
>> That's insane.
>> Margaret Dose, a friend of mine, modeled
this. Um, this is what it looks like
straight out of the machine. There's no
sanding and no paint on this piece.
>> That's
right.
>> I'm almost annoyed.
>> Right. Well, you know, I've noticed
there's a lot of trends in uh modern
fabrication. It's one of the reasons we
did the extra Stan Winston class
>> uh is because a lot of the arts are
moving in this direction. It's a solid
You still need a solid foundation in
traditional art.
>> Yeah. and traditional art techniques.
But the technology is you're you're it's
we're getting to a point now where you
have fewer artists a available to do
things like sculpting, but more artists
available to do digital sculpting. So
there is definitely a sea change in how
we do things in the industry now.
>> Fascinating.
>> Based on the labor pool that's
available,
>> right? Right. Do you find that your
digital artists still are best when
they've had a grounding in physical
sculpting?
>> Absolutely. Yeah.
>> Yeah. Any digital artist that does both
is always going to have a better idea
because part of it is also you have to
understand how fabrication works. So if
you work with someone who's really
green, they might have pieces that float
in space
>> like a tenth of a millimeter on
something and it's barely. Yeah. Like
you need the structure uh but you also
like you need gra you have gravity in
real real space and then in the computer
you don't have gravity. So we've had
literally things designed that would
require floating,
>> you know.
So, but that's that's part of our job I
feel like also is to be the spirit guide
for our clients when they come to us
with one of those designs.
>> Oh, fair. Yeah. Yeah.
>> So, that's all part of the process for
us.
>> Um, the subtlety on the painting of this
is really remarkable like as a painter.
>> Again, that's a very talented artist and
she paints figurines and things like
that. So, you see where the the
practical Yeah.
>> uh, you know, work
>> affects the way she does her digital
work,
>> right? She understands how to delineate
with blacks to bring the details out.
>> And you can see the shading in the in
the braids.
>> No, the shading in the braids is clutch,
man. It's really an amazing piece.
>> And then this is this is Elliot Serotto.
>> He's one of our art directors here. He
designed this is Mutton Chops, an
original creature design that he did.
>> I love mutton chops. He's waiting under
the bed.
>> Exactly. Right. Well, that's one of the
things that we do offer um artists that
that that we work with. We'll print
these things for free if they do a
really great design that we can share.
>> Nice. Oh, that's a great idea.
>> So, it's like a good exchange.
>> Yeah. And then we get beautiful things
like this.
>> Right. Right. Right.
>> Um but it can this is a good example of
translucent.
>> So, it can print in translucent color.
>> Wow.
>> So, opaque or translucent. And then um
this is this is one of the uh we've been
doing more and more of this too. We
print uh basically when we work on a
documentary uh a lot of times like this
was for Stanley doc the Stan Lee
documentary on Disney Plus.
>> We won an Emmy for this. Our art
department did um but basically they
don't have photographs of his early life
or his early career because he was born
in the 30s. And we're actually finding
this in a lot of documentaries that go
back into history. So we've been
recreating scenes in miniature.
>> Oh,
right. Right.
>> Of the scene that you would want a
photograph of or video.
>> Oh, that's neat.
>> And we've done it with we've done these
with puppets. We've done this uh Black
Barbie that's on uh Netflix just got
nominated for an Emmy as well. And we
did the same thing on that show. We used
Barbies and built miniature sets to
convey uh the storytelling of the
documentary. That's amazing. And this is
again, this is a single print. Even the
patterning on the dress. I mean, I'm
looking at her little tiny ring finger
bending around the handle there. Like,
every detail is perfect.
>> Yeah, it's it's a huge timesaver. Well,
in so many of the things that we design
these days, we we start in the computer
to show the clients the computer design.
You could do a turnaround. So, that that
path to arriving at a design also has
evolved over the years. But you clearly
you're also your brain trust here and
this digital sculpt is masterful.
>> We have some very talented
>> fabric moving is like chef's kiss.
That's amazing.
>> It's
I'm speechless.
>> So now for the really fun one.
>> Uh Norman sent us a 3D model of your
scan.
>> Oh no. The one from Spectral.
>> Yes. So this is the spectral scan. 3D
scan and it was done in color. So we
were able to do a 3D print in color.
Now, mind you, this is straight from
scan to print.
>> There's no modification,
>> but when you when you realize that, it's
actually really really remarkable how it
turned out.
>> Wow.
>> It looks like I was frozen to death.
>> Yeah, it's a little light. So,
obviously, this would be a prototype if
we were doing a manufacturing of this in
any way.
>> So, we would like tweak this. We would
also adjust like you can see in the ear
where it's really hard for the scanner
to pick up
>> color information. Oh my god, this is
crazy great.
>> Isn't that nuts?
>> Also, it looks like there's
underpainting
>> like
>> Yeah, that's that's that's And with uh
this one.
>> Yeah.
>> Uh because you can actually adjust that.
It's what in CG they call subsurface
scattering because it's printing with
translucent.
>> Oh my god.
>> Over white. You can get a certain amount
of sub subsurface scattering. That's a
tongue twister.
>> Yeah. Yeah. I swear if you told me I
would have more believed someone painted
this than it could be a digital print
because it looks so much like there's
underpainting and overpainting and a
subtle
>> attack. You really see the the the
difference in tone.
>> Yes, dude. That is absolutely the
eeriest
casting of rendition of my head yet.
>> Yes, I know. That's what I thought. Like
that's kind of creepy but
accurate but also kind of pale.
>> Definitely.
>> It does look fro you do look frozen.
>> My hair isn't quite that gray. No,
>> no, it's a little warmer than that.
>> Dude, why you guys should I would be
printing everybody I know.
>> Oh yeah. Well, this goes back to the
rule. I have actually have Oh, do I have
one in here?
>> I do. Okay. So, there's a rule. If you
own a 3D scanner and you own a 3D
printer, you have to print an action
figure of yourself.
>> Oh,
>> so that's the Fawn Davis action figure.
>> It's funny. It almost is like these two
could also be uh NPCs in a video game,
>> right?
>> Right. You know, the walking and the
>> I love the Yeah, you're right. Action
figures.
>> You're serious there, boy. So are you.
>> No, you're very serious. like a tendency
to
we'll have to we'll have to plop you on
a a body.
>> Dude, that's crazy. I mean, what this
gives you in terms of the hardest part
of working with clients, in my
experience, is always getting them to
translate in their heads between a 2D
meeting and a 3D thing that will
eventually be produced. And this just
cuts so much of that out for you, I
would imagine.
>> Oh, absolutely. I always say that like
if you bring a mckette or a mockup to a
meeting, it changes that meeting uh to
an event,
>> right? Like if you're pitching
something, it's great because you you
put you can see the reaction of people
in in a it's usually in a boardroom.
Everyone sits around, someone's got
maybe a monitor with a slideshow, you
know, or their iPad and they're like
this this is a concept art. But when you
walk in with a Mckette and you set that
on the table, everyone's out of their
chairs.
>> Yeah.
>> Everyone's out of their chairs. They're
looking at it. They're getting excited
and I actually think that that actually
helps sell shows.
>> I'm sure
>> we've done a lot of lot of those and you
see a real kind of improvement in what's
getting like green lit
>> based on having a Mac head in a meeting.
>> How many meetings have you gone to with
a primer gray model and been told I
don't love the color?
>> It's funny. I've not seen that.
>> Oh, really?
>> Yeah. Yeah. Cuz we do we we've done the
gray mett. These were for Ultram Man
Rising when they were pitching that show
around. This is for a dinosaur show. So,
we do try to do color now.
>> That's what I mean is it's so easy for
you to do color now.
>> Yeah, but I haven't I haven't had
complaints about the gray ones actually.
Oh, I take it back. These are the gray
ones. We have the We did paint those.
>> Yeah,
>> I think we just paint them now or we
print them in color,
>> right?
>> So, I guess we don't deliver a lot of
gray models.
>> Yeah. I stopped doing it because the
client would just not be able to
understand. You had to show them a paint
job.
>> Yeah,
>> dude. That's crazy. That I could get a
passport photo made out of this thing.
>> You could.
>> Um, dude, thank you so much for walking
me through the beautiful technology. You
guys are always
>> always out at the leading edge of
technology and I love that.
>> We try.
>> It's beautiful.
>> It's costly though.
>> Thank you so much for watching that
video. If while watching any of my
videos, you like any of the t-shirts
that you see me wearing, well, you can
go buy them. And there's two places you
can get them. First, you can go to
tested-store.com,
a web address that my crew laughs is one
of the hardest things for me to remember
in my whole brain. But now they've given
me a second URL. You can now go to
adamsavage.com and buy any of the
t-shirts you see me wearing on this
channel. And there's a whole bunch of
other stuff there, too. Thanks,